♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[Jay hums a tune]
-Whaah!
-[shrieks]
[groans]
I-I'm sorry about that.
I didn't see you.
Here. Let me help.
[crane grunts]
Thanks.
You're welcome. I'm Jay.
By the way, what's your name?
Oh, I'm Wayne. Wayne the crane.
Well, nice to meet you,
Wayne the crane.
-Nice to meet you, too.
-Listen.
I'm on the way to meet my
friends for some hot cocoa.
If you're not doing anything
right now, you wanna come?
Oh, I don't know.
Oh, come on. It'll be fun.
Okay. It does sound nice.
Oh, we should ask your friends
to come with us, too.
-Hey, Wayne's friends!
-[honks]
Wait! Don't!
They're not my friends.
Uh, I mean, I wish they were,
but I'm no good
at making friends.
I don't know how to.
Of course you do.
-You made friends with me.
-I did?
I mean, well, do you think those
cranes would be my friend
if I bumped into them
like I bumped into you?
Only one way to find out.
Come on. I'll come with you.
Here comes the friendship bump!
[yells] Hey! Let's be friends!
[Wayne honks]
-[yells]
-[cranes honking]
Huh. That was
a surprising reaction.
No, it's not.
It happens to me all the time.
I just don't know
how to make friends.
You know, I think you need to meet
my friends Toby and Teri.
They're really really
good at helping.
They'll figure it out.
I promise.
-What do you think?
-I think that would be amazing.
[sips]
Mmm. I love hot cocoa
on a cool day.
Hey, guys! I want
to introduce you to someone!
This is my friend Wayne.
Is he make-believe?
No, he's-- Hmm?
Wait. Where'd he go?
It's okay, Wayne.
These are my friends.
Any friend of Jay's
is a friend of ours.
Nice to meet you, Wayne.
-Hi there.
-Hello.
Nice to meet you guys, too.
Wayne's got a little problem
I thought you guys could help with.
-Of course. Happy to help.
-Some cranes moved into the meadow,
and Wayne would like
to be their friend.
But-- But I don't know
how to make friends.
Making new friends
can be hard to do.
But we'll help if you want.
Really?
I-I think that'd be great.
Thank you.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Wayne really wants to be friends
with the other cranes.
So we have to figure out
what Wayne needs to do
to make new friends.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
[bubbles popping]
Hi, guys.
[shrieks]
Hey, Beatrice.
This is our new friend Wayne.
Any friend of yours
is a friend of mine.
Howdy, Wayne.
I'm Beatrice,
but you can call me Bea.
[chuckles] Hi, Bea.
What are you doing
with your tail?
Oh, we beavers can talk
with our tails.
Right now, I'm asking you
to be my friend.
Oh. I'd really like
to be your friend.
Then slap your tail right back.
[laughs]
That's what beavers do.
[grunts]
Hey, this is kind of fun.
You should slap your tail like
that for the cranes, Wayne.
-I bet they'd love it.
-Really? You think so?
Ho ho. You do look
really friendly doing it.
What do you think, Wayne?
Wanna go up there and
shake a tail feather?
Yeah! Sure. Thanks, Bea.
Happy to help. Good luck, Wayne.
[honks]
Psst! Look over here.
Come on! Look at me!
-Look!
-[honks]
[honking]
Whoa!
[babbles]
-[sighs]
-[honking]
I was sure that would work.
It worked
for your beaver friend.
What do we do now?
We follow the facts.
We've made new friends before.
What else have we done?
Millie made friends
with the mockingbird.
She sang a song.
That's right. I started singing,
and she joined in.
Now we sing
all the time together.
[gasps]
[laughs]
I could sing a song about
the wonderfulness of friendship.
[sighs] Except I don't know
a song about
the wonderfulness of friendship.
You don't have to.
We'll write you a song.
Yes! It'll be a piece of cake!
Oh, we should definitely
have cake in the song.
It's a fact. Friends love cake.
Write that down.
Yeah, and we'll say
the word "friends" a lot,
because a good song
always repeats.
It'll go like...
♪ Friends, friends, friends ♪
-[laughs] That's catchy, Bean.
-If we work together,
we'll have a great song
for you to sing, Wayne.
Yeah. We got this.
Okay, remember...
♪ From where the sun rises
To where the river ends ♪
♪ What I'd like most
In the wide world ♪
♪ Is for you to be my friends ♪
And you could add in,
"Friends love cake,"
-if you feel it works in the moment.
-Okay. I got it.
[screechy]
♪ The river ends! ♪
♪ The fork, it bends! ♪
♪ Friends and sunsets! ♪
-♪ Tra la! ♪
-[honking]
Come back!
You haven't heard the rest!
There's another 15 verses!
[sighs]
I give up. Nothing works.
I'll never make friends
with those cranes.
There's gotta be
a way to help Wayne.
Well, me and Rumy made friends
by sharing acorns.
Remember how I made
friends with you guys?
Yeah. [laughs] You got stuck
in the chimney of the treehouse.
But by the time you got me out,
we were friends.
And I was really dirty.
Maybe that's
not such a good idea.
But it's a clue.
We all have different stories,
because we're all different.
And so is Wayne.
He shouldn't be
slapping his tail like a beaver
or singing like Millie.
Wayne should be doing
something he loves to do.
But, how do we figure out
what Wayne loves to do?
That's an easy one.
We ask him. Come on.
-[Millie] Hey, Wayne.
-[shrieks]
Wow! You can really dance.
[sighs]
It was really so beautiful.
You're amazing, Wayne.
I knew you could bump,
but this, wow!
You were so-- Wow!
Thanks. I really love to dance.
It's kind of my special,
secret, all my own thing.
I bet if you shared your
dance with those cranes,
-they'd love it.
-Really?
If you showed them
who you really are,
-they can't help but like you.
-We'll even provide the music.
Okay, everyone.
A-one, a-two...
A-one, two, three, four.
[playing instruments]
Hi. Can I dance, too?
Sure! I mean, yes.
Do you want to?
I'm Jane. I love to dance,
but I was always afraid to.
I'm shy.
Really? Me, too!
I mean, me, too.
I'm Wayne.
Wayne, this is Duane and Lane.
-Uh, do you mind if we join in?
-I'd love that.
[playing instruments]
It's working!
The cranes are talking to Wayne
and copying his dance moves.
Look at this.
It says here
red-crowned cranes like Wayne
get to know each other by
copying each other's movements.
Hey, everybody, come on over,
and meet my new friends.
Everyone say, "Dance party"!
-Dance party!
[camera clicks]
So to make friends,
Wayne just needed
to be himself, and do
what he loved to do.
When he showed the cranes
who he was inside,
it turned out they loved
dancing just as much as he did,
and he made some new friends.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
"The Case of the Clumsy Crane"
is officially closed.
All clear. Is everything ready?
Rumy and I made a banner.
[panting]
And I've got the balloons.
-[wind blowing]
-Or they've got me!
Toby, can you take the
balloons and the banner
-and hide them in the treehouse?
-You got it.
Oh, Bean's going to have
the best birthday party ever!
And the best part,
it's a surprise party,
which makes it even more fun,
because, you know, it's a surprise.
I guess that's why they
call it a surprise party,
even though that
kinda gives it away.
[panting] Sorry I'm late.
Here are the cupcakes,
fresh out of the oven.
[Rumy] Yum!
Millie's famous
nut-butter cupcakes!
Ooh, they smell so good.
Wait. Where are the acorns?
Bean loves them when
you put acorns on top.
Uh, I still have to find some.
Acorns are really hard
to find in the winter.
[Bean] What's hard
to find in the winter?
You guys wouldn't
be hiding anything, would you?
No! [laughs] Why would we
be hiding something?
Maybe because
you're possibly, maybe,
putting together
a birthday party
for someone who might
be having a birthday.
No. No one I know
is having a birthday.
Me neither.
Definitely no birthdays today.
We don't know what you're
talking about, Bean.
None of us know anyone
who's having a birthday
anytime soon.
[laughs] Oh, really?
Then what's on the table?
There's nothing on the table.
[Rumy stammers]
Oh. I-I guess you're right.
There is nothing on the table.
Really? I, uh...
Uh, will you excuse us?
What happened to the cupcakes?
They were right there,
and now they're gone.
Don't worry, Millie.
We'll find 'em.
Aww.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
[whispering]
To the treehouse.
[camera clicks]
Everyone knows
it's Bean's birthday.
And they all know
he loves nut-butter cupcakes.
So who would take them?
That's what we've
gotta find out, and fast.
Or Bean's surprise party isn't
going to be much of a party.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
Okay, I asked Bean
to find me some beets.
He doesn't like beets,
so he knows they're
not for his birthday.
Great thinking, Millie.
Now, we gotta find those cupcakes,
or it's not gonna be much
of a surprise party.
It'll still be a surprise,
but not a fun one.
Surprise!
You've got no cupcakes!
Okay. What do we know?
Uh, well, I know I'm sitting
on something
that's kind of sharp...
and acorny.
It's an acorn.
It's a clue!
It looks like this acorn
was tied to a piece of paper.
Probably a note
from whoever took the cupcakes.
If we find that note, we'll be
able to find the cupcakes!
[laughs] I'll find it.
It should be right here.
Or maybe on the bench?
O-Or under the table.
Hold on.
I'm trying to read your pants.
That's okay, Rumy.
No harm done.
It's too smudged to read.
Except here at the bottom.
Someone signed their name.
It's hard to read,
but I think it says "Rah--"
No, "Roc--" No.
-Rocco!
Why would Rocco
take the cupcakes?
I don't know,
but we're gonna find out.
Rocco lives in these rocks.
Rocco! Are you home?
[sighs] He's not here.
But if he had left, there'd be
footprints in the snow.
No Rocco, and no footprints.
This is a mystery.
With no footprints to follow,
-he's going to be hard to find.
-Let's get you some help.
Treehouse Detectives aerial
squadron reporting for duty!
Birds have amazing eyesight,
so if anyone's going to be
able to find Rocco,
it's you guys.
Remember, we find Rocco,
we find those cupcakes,
so when you see him,
use your headsets
to tell us where he is.
Roger that.
We're on it.
I'll use stickers and a map
to keep track of where you see him.
Okay. Treehouse Detectives
aerial squadron,
Operation Save Bean's
Birthday is a go!
-Let's do this.
-Good luck!
You can do it!
[laughs]
I see him next to the oak tree
in Shady Glade.
So he's here.
Gotcha. Okay, let's go.
Wait, guys. He's gone.
[gasps]
And I don't see any footprints.
I see him. He's at the stream.
Rocco moved again?
Oh, he's fast.
[radio crackles]
[owl] Rocco spotted
near the pistachio pond!
[owl #2]
We see Rocco!
[owl #3]
At the forest stream oak tree.
Everyone keeps seeing him
at different places
at the same time.
How can that be?
So where is he,
and how is he getting
wherever he's going
without any footprints?
-So it's a dead end.
-Which just means we have to go
back to the beginning
and follow the facts.
This is the first oak tree
where Jay saw Rocco.
But he was
at all those other trees, too,
and no one ever saw
a single footprint.
Look.
There's a hole in the snow.
It's a Rocco-sized tunnel.
But it's in the snow.
Nobody would dig a tunnel
in the snow, would they?
I mean, isn't it really,
really cold?
No, it's not.
On cold winter days,
it's warmer down there
than up here in Acorn Springs,
so small animals like Rocco
dig tunnels
all through the snow.
But that means Rocco
and the cupcakes
could be anywhere.
Maybe if we draw lines
between all the places
Rocco was seen,
they all meet up
in the same place,
so that's where
we'll find Rocco
and our cupcakes.
This has to be the spot.
Hey, Rocco.
Toby, hi.
So what do you guys think?
You decorated the cupcakes
with acorns.
We know how much
Bean loves acorns,
and how hard it is
to find them in the winter.
So we all picked out
our best ones
and brought them to Rocco.
Didn't you get my note?
It said that we wanted
to do something nice for Bean
and help Millie out since we have
all these yummy acorns.
Yeah, we got it,
but I erased it on accident.
Wow, erased it?
H-How'd you find me?
It's what detectives do.
Ah, you guys are good,
real good.
Thanks for helping.
The cupcakes look great!
Hey, I have an idea.
There's a tunnel
to the treehouse, right?
Sure. There's a bunch of 'em.
Then let's
turn this surprise party
into a double surprise party!
Ooh, our surprise
is going to have a surprise.
Surprise!
We got a surprise on a surprise!
[no audible dialogue]
Now everyone remember, before
Bean gets here, we gotta hide.
Then when he does show up,
we all say, "Surprise!"
Okay, now everyone
practice with me. "Surpri--"
Hey, where'd everyone go?
Hey, Jay.
I got those beets Millie wanted.
[screams]
I mean, excuse me.
[Teri] Hey!
-Surprise!
[honking]
[laughs]
You remembered!
I thought you guys
had forgotten my birthday.
We'd never forget your birthday.
Happy birthday, Bean.
And thanks for the beets.
Thanks for the party.
I was really surprised.
Well, how do you feel
about double surprises?
[laughs]
I think I love them!
Of course you do.
Rocco!
[snow crunching]
-Surprise!
-Happy birthday, Bean!
Wow! My favorite cupcakes.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
This is the best birthday ever.
Everybody say, "Surprise!"
-Surprise!
[camera clicks]
That was
the best surprise party ever!
But it took some detective work
to make it all work out.
Who knew
that Rocco and the pikas
had secret passages
under the snow?
But just like we always say,
if you use the clues...
They lead you to the cupcakes.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
"The Case of the Snowy Secret"
is officially closed.